
 #پروژه_ارشد 
 [[تحقیق نوشتن پروپوزال PDT]]
 
 عنوان: <mark class="hltr-purple">*بررسی شاخص‌های موثر چهارچوب‌های فلزی-آلی به عنوان حامل ترکیبات حساس به نور در درمان فتودینامیک با رویکرد یادگیری ماشین* 
 </mark>
 
<mark class="hltr-purple"> Investigation of Key Features of Metal-Organic Frameworks as Carriers of Photosensitizing Agents in Photodynamic Therapy Using a Machine Learning Approach</mark>

[[ارائه روش تحقیق]]


 سوالات یا اهداف کوچک تر:

- [ ] تحقیق درباره هر فصل که چی باید باشه توش
- [ ] نوشتن فهرست سه فصل اول
- [ ] جمع کردن منابع
- [ ] نوشتن هر فصل


# فهرست 

## مقدمه

### درمان فتودینامیک

### ماف

### ماشین لرنینگ




## مروری بر منابع


### درمان فتودینامیک
#### بیماری ها 
سرطان و حالت های پیش سرطانی، بیماری های پوستی، بیماری های چشم پزشکی،  بیماری های واگیردار
#### سرطان
##### روش های دیگر درمان سرطان و مزیت ها و معایب با درمان فتودینامیک
غیر اگرسیو بودن و ...
##### کافی نبودن تنهای درمان فتودینامیک

#### نحوه درمان و اثر درمان فتودینامیک
##### singlet oxygen
##### ROS
#### مکانیزم های فتودینامیک

### ماف
#### ماف چیه

#### انواع ماف در درمان فتودینامیک
##### فتودینامیک ایجنت به عنوان لیگاند
##### حامل فتودینامیک ایجنت

### ماشین لرنینگ
#### کلاسیک
#### یادگیری عمیق

#### مدل های زبانی بزرگ 
##### ایجنت ها و اینا




## مواد و روش ها









---

# منابع

- [ ]  [[Photodynamic therapy based on metal-organic framework in cancer treatment A comprehensive review of integration strategies for synergistic combination therapies]]
- [ ]  [[A metal-organic cage-based nanoagent for enhanced photodynamic antitumor therapy]]
- [ ]  [[Singlet Oxygen in Photodynamic Therapy]]
- [ ] [[Photodynamic therapy  mechanisms, photosensitizers and combinations]]
- [ ]  [[Photodynamic Therapy From Theory to Application]]
- [ ]  [[Image-guided photodynamic cancer therapy]]
- [ ]  [[Translation and Innovation of Photosensitizers]]
- [ ] [[Photodynamic Therapy Review Principles, Photosensitizers, Applications, and Future Directions]]
- [ ] [[Photodynamic Therapy in the Treatment of Cancer—The Selection of Synthetic Photosensitizers]]
- [ ] [[Mechanisms of photodynamic therapy]] 
- [ ] [[Nanocomposite-Based Photodynamic Therapy Strategies for Deep Tumour Treatment]]
- [ ] [[How Machine Learning Aids Material Selection]]
- [ ] [[Machine Learning for Materials Scientists An introductory guide towards best practices]]
- [ ] [[Materials discovery and design using machine learning]]
- [ ] [[Photodynamic Therapy]]
- [ ] [[Singlet Oxygen, Photodynamic Therapy, and Mechanisms of Cancer Cell Death
- [ ] [[Applications of machine learning in metal-organic frameworks]]
- [ ] [[Drug delivery system tailoring via metal-organic framework property prediction using machine learning A disregarded approach]]
- [ ] [[Extracting accurate materials data from research papers with conversational language models and prompt engineering]]
- [ ] [[Materials discovery and design using machine learning]]
- [ ] [[Machine Learning for Materials Scientists An introductory guide towards best practices]]
- [ ] [[Prediction of the Ibuprofen Loading Capacity of MOFs by Machine Learning]]
- [ ] [[The drug loading capacity prediction and cytotoxicity analysis of metal–organic frameworks using stacking algorithms of machine learning]]
- [ ] [[A predictive model for personalization of nanotechnology-based phototherapy in cancer treatment]]
- [ ] [[Photodynamic Therapy From Theory to Application]]


پاسخ:

## دلیل اقبال به این روش


PDThas several advantages over conventional approaches to cancer treatment. First generation photosensitizers cause increased skin photosensitivity. However, PDT has no long-term side effects when correctly used. It is less invasive than surgical procedures and can be performed on an outpatient basis. In addition to the tumor itself, PDT can also destroy the vasculature associated with it, greatly contributing to tumor death [54]. PDTcanbeapplied directly and accurately in the target tissue, due to its dual selectivity. The two main factors that contribute to the selectivity of PDT are the intrinsic capacity of some photosensitizers to preferentially accumulate in tumor tissue and light irradiation exclusively in the target tissue [10,54]. The selective accumulation of the PS in the tumor is facilitated in the case of topical application, since PS is applied directly and only to the lesions to be treated. When PS is given intravenously, it needs to remain in circulation long enough to reach and accumulate in the tumor [10]. Furthermore, PDT can be repeated sev eral times in the same location, unlike radiation. There is little or no scarring after healing. Finally, it usually costs less than other therapeutic modalities in cancer treatment [54,55]. Like every therapeutic modalities, PDT also has some limitations. The photodynamic effect occurs selectively in the irradiated site, which makes its use in disseminated metas tases very difficult with the currently available technology [54]. Tissue oxygenation is crucial for the photodynamic effect to occur, so tumors surrounded by necrotic tissue or dense tumor masses can lead to ineffective PDT. Finally, the accuracy of target tissue irradi ation is the most important point when considering PDT as a treatment option. Therefore, deep tumors (not easily accessible without surgical intervention) are difficult to treat due to the low penetration of visible light into the tissue [54,56]. The main advantages and limitations of PDT are summarized in Table
[[Photodynamic Therapy Review Principles, Photosensitizers, Applications, and Future Directions]]

The described photocytotoxic reactions occur only within the pa thological tissues, in the area of photosensitizer distribution, enabling selective destruction [16]. Photosensitizers accumulate in significantly higher concentrations in cancer cells than in regular cells. The reason of such biodistribution may be the tendency of photosensitizers to com bine preferentially with low density lipoproteins (LDL). The role of LDL is to supply tissues with the necessary cholesterol to create membranes during cell division. Vehemently dividing cancer cells show an in creased uptake of LDL lipoproteins, which act as a "transporter" of the photosensitizer to the cancerous tissues [17]. In addition, tissues with an increased mitotic activity reveal ex cessive expression of LDL lipoprotein receptors on the cell surface. The affinity of photosensitizers for serum lipoproteins, in particular for LDL, plays an important role in the delivery of these drugs to the tumor tissue [18,19]. It is known now that PDT leads to a systemic anti-cancer response. Photodynamic therapy affects the vascular system of the tumor and stimulates the immune system. The process of destruction of an in appropriate tissue is complemented by the activation of coagulation processes (occlusion of tumor vessels) and local accumulation of in f lammatory cells [20]. Cancer cells that have escaped death by the direct photocytotoxic effects of PDT may still be destroyed via the indirect influence of PDT on tumor blood vessels. Reactive oxygen species damage of vascular S. Kwiatkowski et al. endothelial cells activates clotting processes, aggregate platelets and block vessels by forming thrombi. As a result of vascular occlusion, persistent hypoxia of tumor tissue leads to the cell death [21]. Furthermore, the efficiency of the PDT-method is associated with systemic anti-cancer immune response of the body. PDT destroys the structure of the tumor and thus stimulates direct interaction between immune cells and cancer cells. Direct destruction in tumor tissue leads to the development of a strong inflammatory reaction and neoplasm infiltration by leukocytes. Membrane photodamages lead to the acti vation of phospholipases, and then cyclooxygenases, causing massive release of inflammatory mediators- lipid hydrolysis products and ara chidonic acid metabolites. Photo-injuries of the blood vessel walls at tract neutrophils and macrophages. Neutrophil degranulation as well as the release of lysosomal enzymes and chemotactic factors additionally contribute to the destruction of tumor tissue, exacerbating the de struction process initiated by the earlier irradiation

[[Photodynamic therapy  mechanisms, photosensitizers and combinations]]



PDT offers unique and irreplaceable advantages. It is non-resistant, allowing for repeated treatment. PDT exhibits high therapeutic selectivity towards the lesion, causing little to no damage to healthy tissues, and has only a few toxic side effects. Consequently, PDT is especially suitable for elderly and frail patients who are unable to undergo surgical resection or chemotherapy. In particular, for patients with advanced tumors who have not responded effectively to or are at risk with traditional treatments, PDT is an extremely ideal treatment option. Different types of molecules can be used as photosensitizers; Since photosensitisers are accumulated in pathological brain tissue to a higher extent than in normal brain parenchyma, subsequent activation by light produces a variety of cytotoxic oxidative reactions which induce selective tumour destruction [6, 7]. Therefore, PDT offers more selectivity as compared to chemo and radiotherapy and seems to be a logical concept for brain tumours infiltrating into normal brain. 

[[Photodynamic Therapy From Theory to Application]] 


## نسل ها

There are a variety of molecular structures of photosensitizers that are currently used in PDT, and it is possible to divide photosensitizers into three generations. The porfimer sodium and the HpD are first-generation photosensitizers. The second-generation pho tosensitizers arise to overcome some drawbacks of the first-generation ones, related to light absorption at a specific spectral region. Some examples of second-generation pho tosensitizers are the derivates of chlorins, bacteriochlorins, and phthalocyanines, which can have a stronger action on the tumor regions due to their strong absorbance in the deep red region, and consequently, increased light penetration. Finally, the third-generation photosensitizers are molecules with improved selectivity for tumor regions, due to the conjunction of the PS with targeting molecules or its encapsulation into carriers. Thus, photosensitizers progressed towards the improvement of PDT specificity and efficacy.
[[Photodynamic Therapy Review Principles, Photosensitizers, Applications, and Future Directions]]

These families can be further categorized into three generations. Examples of f irst-generation ps from the porphyrin family are hp (and its derivatives) which are comprised of endogenous ps originating from cells that produce their own ps [31]. Examples of second-generation ps are Chlorin e6 ‘‘Ce6’’ (Chlorines), Phthalocy anine and Naphthalocyanine (Dyes), among others. The third generation includes monoclonal antibodies that bind selectively to an antigen on cancer cells, which is still in progress
[[Photodynamic Therapy From Theory to Application]]

Three generations of photosensitizers are presented, starting with the first, based on porphyrins, through the second generation, including modified porphyrins, chlorins, 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) and its derivative hexyl aminolevulinate (HAL), to the third generation, which is based on the use of nanotechnology to increase the selectivity of therapy. In addition, current research trends are highlighted, including the search for new photosensitizers that can overcome the limitations of existing therapies, such as heavy-atom-free nonporphyrinoid photosensitizers, antibody–drug conjugates (ADCs) or photosensitizers with a near-infrared (NIR) absorption peak

[[Photodynamic Therapy in the Treatment of Cancer—The Selection of Synthetic Photosensitizers]]



## نسل اول
The first application of a photosensitizing agent in combination with light can be attributed to a medical student from Munich- Oscar Raab. During experiments with acridine dyes, Raab noticed that fluorescence occurs in protozoa which had been treated with dyes and then irra diated. This phenomenon triggered the consumption of oxygen and the toxic effect, which led to the death of protozoa. Raab presented his observations to Professor Von Tappeiner, who explained and described this phenomenon as a "photodynamic effect" in 1904 [28]. Soon after that, in 1905, the first effective attempt of skin cancer treatment with the use of 5% eosin solution was carried out. However, this therapy did not reach a wider audience and was forgotten for decades [29]. Photosensitizers were introduced to the treatment on a commercial scale for the first time in the 1970s by Dr. Thomas Dougherty and his colleagues [30]. They were testing a water-soluble porphyrin mixture called the "hematoporphyrin derivative" (HpD). HpD was obtained by purification and chemical modification of the first porphyrin used as PS- hematoporphyrin (Hp) (Table 1). HpD compared to Hp showed better tissue selectivity for tumors and less photosensitizing potential on the skin. Subsequently, a mixture of porphyrin dimers and oligomers iso lated from HpD was available under the trade name “Photofrin”. Cur rently, Photofrin- also known as sodium porfimer– has remained the most commonly used PS [31]. Despite wide applications in PDT, the preparation has some limitations of its clinical applications resulting from the following properties: low chemical purity (it is a mixture of over 60 molecules) or poor tissue penetration due to maximum ab sorption at a relatively short wavelength- 630nm. In addition, after PDT, skin hypersensitivity to light for several weeks because of long half-life of PS and its high accumulation in the skin occurs. The dis advantages of the first generation photosensitizers forced the need of investigating new compounds and initiated the development of the second generation photosensitizers

[[Photodynamic therapy  mechanisms, photosensitizers and combinations]]

first generation, which includes, among others, Photofrin—the first PS approved for clinical use, as well as other compounds based on the structure of protoporphyrin—a natural heterocyclic aromatic compound that, thanks to the presence of pyrrole rings, is able to absorb light
[[Photodynamic Therapy in the Treatment of Cancer—The Selection of Synthetic Photosensitizers]]


Hematoporphyrins is one of the most important and widely used ps known. Therefore, many studies have been performed to investigate the effect of this Ps for different applications. Studies using HpD go back as early as 1980 when Perria et al. who was the first to use PDT in the treatment of human gliomas, concluded that high dose photoradiation of HpD could be used as an adjuvant to radiotherapy and surgery and have no further complications [32]. Further studies throughout the 1 History of Photodynamic Therapy 11 years have been done by different scientists to compare HpD efficacy in PDT. The results of one of these studies concluded that porphyrins achieve selective tumor killing and sparing of normal brain with a maximal depth of tumor, as mentioned by Karagianis et al. in 1996 [33]. In 2003, Szurko et al. found out that the pho todynamic action of different types of porphyrins was able to inhibit growth of melanoma at nontoxic concentrations when cell death was caused by necrosis [34]. Studies made by Daicoviciu et al. in 2010, where they evaluated rats subcutane ously administered with Walker 256 carcinoma. They demonstrated that porphy rins could be used efficiently in in vivo PDT treatment [35]. More studies are being examined daily. One of the latest is a study by Li et al. in 2013 examining the effect of hematoporphyrin monomethyl ether ‘‘HMME’’-mediated PDT, which is a promising porphyrin-related ps, on the mitochondria of canine breast cancer cells. Results attributed damages of mitochondrial structure and mitochondrial dys function [36]


[[Photodynamic Therapy From Theory to Application]]




## نسل دوم

As early as in the 1980s, studies on the next generation of photo sensitizers began. Several hundred substances with potential photo sensitizing properties had been proposed, only a few of which were used in clinical trials. The number of substances officially approved for clinical use in anti-cancer PDT is even smaller. Currently, the group of the second generation photosensitizers in cludes hematoporphyrin derivatives and synthetic photosensitizers such as: 5-aminolevulinic acid, benzoporphyrin derivatives, tex aphyrins, thiopurine derivatives, chlorin [34,35] as well as bacterio chlorin analogues and phthalocyanines (Table 1) [34]. The use of 5 aminolevulinic acid (ALA) (Table 1) turned out to be an important discovery- the precursor of protoporphyrin IX. ALA is a kind of prodrug that becomes an active PS only after being transformed into the pro toporhyrin. For that reason, ALA or its esters can be used topically or orally in many clinical applications [36,37]. The second-generation photosensitizers are characterized by a higher chemical purity, higher yield of singlet oxygen formation and better penetration to deeply located tissues due to their maximum ab sorption in the wavelength range 650–800nm. In addition, they de monstrate fewer side effects, which results from a higher selectivity for cancerous tissues and faster elimination of the photosensitizer from body. The main disadvantage of the second generation PS is their poor solubility in water, which is a significantly limiting factor in their in travenous administration and forces the search for new methods of drug delivery [8].

[[Photodynamic therapy  mechanisms, photosensitizers and combinations]]

The second generation consists of modified PSs from the first generation and includes macrocyclic compounds based on tetrapyrrole, such as chlorins, bacteriochlorins and phthalocyanines, as well as 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) and its derivative—hexyl aminolevulinate (HAL). The second generation of PSs are characterized by a high light absorption coefficient in the near infrared range and an increased ability to generate reactive oxygen species, thanks to which they can be used to treat larger and deeper tumors. Moreover, ALA has been used in intraoperative imaging of brain tumors, thanks to its selective accumulation in tumor cells and its ability to fluoresce, which allows neurosurgeons to perform more accurate tumor resection  In turn, HAL is used with good effect to treat bladder cancer

[[Photodynamic Therapy in the Treatment of Cancer—The Selection of Synthetic Photosensitizers]]

As previously mentioned, Oscar Raab was the first to propose the use of dyes as photosensitizers. Later, von Tappeiner performed studies using different types of dyes to examine the efficacy of PDT. The most common dyes used now are phthalocyanines, which belong to the second-generation ps, phthalocyanine dem onstrates higher absorption in the 650–800 nm range and short tissue accumulation [73]. They are relevant for clinical use due to their strong absorption in the far-red spectral band [6]. In 2007, Kolarova et al. preformed a study using- Chloro-Alu minium phthalocyanines ‘‘ClAlPcS’’ along with a semiconductor laser (as the light dose). This procedure was shown to have a lethal effect on melanoma cells [74]. In 2010, Robertson et al. concluded that the new ps metallophthalocyanine ‘‘MPc’’, 18 M. H. Abdel-Kader Fig. 1.14 Talaporfin structure in combination with laser, produced a better outcome in malignant melanoma destruction and had ideal ps characteristics [75]. In 2011, Maduray et al. performed an in vitro study on different cells with the aim of investigating the possible cytotoxic effects of the water-soluble photosensitizer zinc tetrasulfophthalocya nines ‘‘ZnTSPc’’. It was concluded that when ZnTSPc is used in low concentrations and activated by the proper light dose it results in the death

[[Photodynamic Therapy From Theory to Application]]



## نسل سوم

The development of the third generation photosensitizers is based on the synthesis of substances with higher affinity to the tumor tissue, which reduces damage to surrounding, healthy tissues. The problem for the widespread clinical application of photodynamic therapy in on cology is also the difficulty with the preparation of a pharmaceutical procedure that would enable the parenteral administration of photo sensitizers. New drug delivery systems are emerging that effectively increase the bioavailability of the photodynamic method [38]. In order to increase the selectivity of the drug, the following mod ifications of photodynamic therapy are used: • combinations of second generation photosensitizers with molecules focused on the target receptor, • combinations of photosensitizers with LDL lipoprotein, due to the fact that the proliferating tumor cells need more cholesterol for the synthesis of cell walls, • conjugation of a photosensitizer with a monoclonal antibody di rected to the specific antigen of cancer cell, • the use of tumor surface markers such as growth factor receptors, transferrin receptors or hormones (e.g., insulin) These solutions allow for an enhancement of the the selectivity and for a greater accumulation of the photosensitizer in affected areas, and thus- give the the possibility to reduce doses of the drug while main taining satisfactory therapeutic effects [39,40]

[[Photodynamic therapy  mechanisms, photosensitizers and combinations]]



The third generation is based on the second group of photosensitizers, combined with carriers such as monoclonal antibodies, various proteins, carbohydrates or hyaluronic acid or enclosed in nanocapsules (made of gold, silicon or carbon nanotubes). These treatments make the third generation the most selective in combining and accumulating in cancer cells, which leads to the increased effectiveness of therapy while sparing healthy tissues

[[Photodynamic Therapy in the Treatment of Cancer—The Selection of Synthetic Photosensitizers]]













#Goal