[[تحقیق نوشتن پروپوزال PDT]]
```bibtex




```

[[O2-Cu ZIF-8@Ce6 ZIF-8@F127 Composite as a Tumor Microenvironment- esponsive Nanoplatform with Enhanced Photo Chemo-Dynamic Antitumor Efficacy.pdf|PDF]]

[[O2-Cu ZIF-8@Ce6 ZIF-8@F127 Composite as a Tumor Microenvironment- esponsive Nanoplatform with Enhanced Photo Chemo-Dynamic Antitumor Efficacy (supporting info).pdf| supporting info]]

**<span style="color:#00b0f0">سوال یا هدف:</span>**

ROS Generation. Singlet oxygen ( 1 O 2 ) generated by Ce6 under light irradiation
(650 nm, 50 mW cm -1 ) was measured with DPBF probe. 66 DPBF solution (pH = 6.5 and
7.3) was added with CZCF or OCZCF, respectively. Next, UV-Vis spectrometer was
used for DPBF analysis. 

The generation of extracellular hydroxyl radicals (•OH) was measured with MB. 67 All materials were mixed in PBS buffer (pH = 6.5) containing MB
(0.01 μg mL -1 ). For ESR measurements, 100 µL of aqueous solution of samples (1 mg/L)
was mixed with 500 µL of TEMP (50 mM) solution. After being irradiated upon 650 nm
laser for 5 min, the mixture was characterized using a Bruker EMX plus model
spectrometer operating at the X-band frequency at room temperature. The •OH
detection was also performed as described above, except the irradiation and the use of
DMPO (50 mM) as the spin-trapping agent.

## <span style="color:#64ff61">خلاصه موارد پژوهش</span>
---

## <span style="color:#64ff61">تئوری</span>
---



## <span style="color:#64ff61">خلاصه materials and methods</span>
---

روش سنتز = 



## <span style="color:#64ff61"> نتایج و تفسیر</span>
---



## <span style="color:#64ff61">نتیجه گیری</span>
---



## <span style="color:#64ff61">پاسخ نهایی</span>
---




## <span style="color:#64ff61">مقالات مرتبط</span>
---





> [!question] 
>- [ ] 
>- [ ]  
>- [ ] 


> [!idea] 
> - [ ] 
>- [ ] 
>- [ ] 



#article_review
